# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis

## Overview
The "silver tsunmai" is a phrase coined to  signify the large departure of members from the Baby Boomer generation from the workforce. Recently, it was researched which employees would be retiring from Pewlett-Hackard as the "silver tsunami" appraoches in the upcoming year. In order to better prepare the various departments with the upcomng departures, the following analysis was done. In this analysis, the retirement-eligible employees and their title was found as well as a count of how many employees would be retiring from certain titles. A list of soon to be retirement eligible employees who would be eligible for the Mentorship program to mentor and assist younger up and coming Pewlett-Hacakrd employees was found as well.

## Results
* There are 90,398 employees who will be retiring. These employees span across the 7 titles at Pewlett-Hackard: Assistant Engineer, Engineer, Manager, Senior Engineer, Technique Leader, Staff and Senior Staff.
*  Of the 90,398 retiring employees, over half of them have a senior position. 29,414 retiring employees have the title of Senior Engineer and 28,254 are Senior Staff. Counts for the remaining positions can be found here [Retiring Titles](Data/retiring_titles.csv).
* There are 1,940 employees eligible to be mentors in the Mentorship program as seen in [Mentorship Eligibility Table](Data/mentorship_eligibility.csv).
* Currently only no employees in the Manager role that are eligible to mentor in the Mentorship program.

## Summary
The "silver tsunmai" will bring over 90,000 departures from Pewlett-Hackard. During the first year that the "silver tsunami" hits, 31,374 roles will be have departures as seen in [Next Year's Retirements](Data/year_1.csv). The most departures will be in Engineer postions with 8,085 Engineer employees retiring. The Staff roles will have the next highest amount of retiring employess with 7,600. Senior Engineer and Senior Staff positions will have over 6,500 employees retiring respectively. The Manager role will only have 1 employee retiring in the upcoing role which is significantly less than the other  roles.
The Mentorship program eligibility by department and title can be in [Mentorship_Eligibility by Department](Data/mentorship_departments.csv). When looked at by department, it's seen that not all departments will have enough mentors for the program. None of the departments will have manager mentors with the current eligibility and some departments such as Research will not have mentors for certain roles. Despite having 8 engineer mentors and 5 senior engineer mentors, the Research department would have no assistant engineer mentor. By expanding the eligibility parameters in certain departmemts, there would be more than enough mentors for the roles in all departments. Expanding the eligilbility alos could allow more up an coming employees to be mentored by more of the soon to be retired employees and have the soon to be 90,000 roles be filled quicker.
